the book of Exodus now these are the
names of the children of Israel who came
to Egypt each man and his household came
with Jacob Reuben Simeon Levi and Judah
Issachar Zebulun and Benjamin Dan
Naphtali GAD and Asher all those who
were descendants of Jacob were 70
persons for Joseph was in Egypt already
and Joseph died all his brothers and all
that generation but the children of
Israel were fruitful and increased
abundantly multiplied and grew
exceedingly mighty and the land was
filled with them now there arose a new
king over Egypt who did not know Joseph
and he said to his people look the
people of the children of Israel are
more and mightier than we
come let us deal shrewdly with them lest
they multiply and it happened in the
event of war that they also join our
enemies and fight against us and so go
up out of the land
therefore they said taskmasters over
them to afflict them with their burdens
and they did for Pharaoh supply cities
- and Rama sees but the more they
afflicted them the more they multiplied
and grew and they were in dread of the
children of Israel so the Egyptians made
the children of Israel serve with rigor
and they made their lives bitter with
hard bondage in mortar in brick and in
all manner of service in the field all
their service in which they made them
serve was with rigor then the king of
Egypt spoke to the Hebrew midwives of
whom the name of one was schifflet and
the name of the other pure when you do
the duties of a midwife for the Hebrew
women and see them on the birth stools
if it is a son
then you shall kill him but if it is a
daughter then she shall live but the
midwives feared God and did not do as
the king of Egypt commanded them but
saved the male children alive
so the king of Egypt called for the
midwives and said to them why have you
done this thing and saved the male
children alive because the Hebrew women
are not like the Egyptian women for they
are lively and give birth before the
midwives come to them therefore God
dealt well with the midwives and the
people multiplied and grew very mighty
and so it was because the midwives
feared God that he provided households
for them so Pharaoh commanded all his
people every son who is born you shall
cast into the river and every daughter
you shall save alive
you